# Predicting Housing Prices

Project completed while studying at MIT

Determining the price of the house can be really useful when you buy one, you want to buy a house as cheap and as good at the same time as possible, but how to pay a real price for what you get. Machine Learning eases the process of determining the real price of the house, based on the data of properties of different houses and their price you can predict the price of the house with your desired properties. I have build a Machine Learning model to predict the price of the house and accomplished a score of almost 80% correctness of the prediction. To get such score the thorough data cleaning is needed and the right ML algorithm has to be chosen. I used the Linear Regression algorithm that allows to determine the value of the dependent target property based on the independent features.

The main goal of my project is to buid a model to predict housing prices with the help of Linear Regression, a linear model that assumes a linear relationship between independent variables and a dependent variable. Throughout the project I performed 3 main tasks - explored the dataset to become familiar with it, showed some overall and statistical insights and ploted several graphs, prepared the data by deleting and imputing the missing values, deleted redundant properties and discarded the outliers, built a correlation heatmap to discover the most correlated with the target property properties. Finally, I have described in detail what a Linear Regression is, built many models with different amount of variables for multi linear regression to find out the best one on a train set, and then used this model to predict the price of houses from the test set.
